>> Steve.: I have a close
friend named Juan.
And before he was a software engineer,
he was a chef.
And he had this point that he
made to me nine years ago,
kind of relating that, a good chef or
cook knows their tools
incredibly well,
the concept of like mise en place.
A place of getting
everything organized and
ready to go before you
sit down to do your work.
There's a lot of other fields
where running around and
being kind of doing things very tediously
or manually, is not gonna work, right?
As a software engineer, because we are
mostly sitting in front of the computer,
and it's minor movements with our hand and
stuff along those lines.
It doesn't always feel maybe not having
the best handle on all our tools was
really slowing us down.
Because, to be clear, I joke that
a large part of software engineer,
not necessarily the writing of the code,
but the thinking of the problem.
That said, I do think that there is
something to be said for getting really,
really, really comfortable with
your tools to kind of clear that
part of your brain out, right?
It is easier to think big brain thoughts
if all of the mechanics of manifesting
it on the screen is relatively
straightforward and
you're not thinking about,
how do I get over to that file?
Or where is that thing?
All those things are kind of distracting
you from pulling apart the big problem.
And so, what we wanna do today is sit down
with most many people's favorite editor.
I won't quote all the various different
state of JavaScript, surveys, whatever,
but like, generally speaking.
Much to the chagrin of the Emacs group,
Visual Studio Code tends to be
a relatively popular editor, and
one that I think is worthwhile
to sit down and learn.
I'm coming from, what'd I say coming from?
I mean, like a decade ago, TextMate, so
you know, it was only to go up from there.
So we're gonna kinda
go through everything,
all the various different
parts of Versus Code.
Whether you are brand new to VS code or
you've used it all the time,
there will probably be something where,
that makes my life 1,
2, 10, 75, 1000% easier, right?
And we'll kind of cover all
the various to various and
go into a little more depth than you
might in your normal day to day.
I think it is worthwhile to spend a little
bit of time just sitting down with
the tool itself and
learning the ins and out of it.
A lot of times, we are using the tool
while solving some other problem and
learning just about enough to get
the job done and no more than that.
So let's spend some time together.
Let's get it,
let's learn all the kind of moving pieces.
Some things are gonna resonate with you
and be like, I'm gonna use it every day.
Some things are like,
that's good to know, right?
And that will be probably slightly
different for every single person.
But the goal is to figure out how
to kind of take this editor and
make it yours, right?
Not necessarily,
I'll show you some of my settings and
some of the extensions I use totally, but
then also kind of give you the inroads to
figure out all the things that you
wanna do for your particular use case.
Because not only do you probably have
different preferences as a human being,
that's great.
You probably work in various
different code bases,
maybe it's a full stack
type script code base.
Maybe it's like, you don't even
control the backend, who knows?
Maybe you need 17,000 Docker
containers to get anything running.
These are all things I have dealt
with in my life at various points.
So kind of look at what those things are
and you can kind of pick and choose and
craft the experience around that.
And no matter what, as I kind of
mentioned before, my aspiration is that
there is something, many things,
a dozen things, depending on you.
If you're like, hey,
I just came from a jet brains ID to,
I'm learning how to code to,
I've been doing this really long time.
But there's whole parts of VS Code that I
don't touch because I don't know what they
are, and ain't nobody got time for
that, right?
So regardless,
if you're all front-end, great.
If you also need to do some back-end stuff
and worry about having containers and
stuff along those lines, awesome, we'll
kind of navigate all of that together.
And by the end, you will be able
to kind of navigate around and
customize everything to your liking,
so on and so forth, right?
The high level is, we're gonna talk
a little bit about getting around
the editor, cuz that's important.
We're gonna talk about all of
the things that are repetitive and
not big brain thoughts, and
how to make those as easy as possible, and
then making sure that we have
consistent environments.
If you work on a big enough team,
somebody's development environment
is broken at all times, right?
I meant to get such and such task done,
but I couldn't get whatever to spin up.
So we'll talk a little bit
about how to manage that.
And then we're gonna talk a little
bit about how to build your own
Visual Studio Code extensions because
turns out, I'm not going to assume,
I am going to assume.
And that everyone's got a little
passing knowledge of JavaScript,
the JavaScript programming language,
given that we're on frontendmasters.com.
And so, in so
far that we relatively know a lot of the
moving pieces to make VS code extensions.
We'll kind of take a look at that too,
cuz maybe you can start building
out some of your own tooling.
So we'll look at some existing extensions,
we'll look at how to
build our own extensions.
We'll use the editor to build
extensions for the editor,
it's gonna be great, awesome.
So, let's do the businessy stuff,
which is we've got a course website.
As I said to everyone in the room,
the prerequisites,
you're probably gonna need to
download Visual Studio Code
if you don't have it in a full
course on Visual Studio Code,
that is the one core prerequisite.
When we get into some of the container
step, if you don't have docker desktop and
you would like to do that stuff, you can
download it sometime between now and then.
There is also this little repository
here of little sample silly apps,
just because it is hard to explain how to
use an editor without something to edit.
That said, I would say that if whatever
code base that you work on day-to-day, or
one that you know your way around,
I would open that up to, right?
Cuz I think sometimes, it is very hard to
simulate a large real-world code base and
you might have one.
So I think we can apply a lot of those
things to our own code bases, so on and
so forth.